# Chapter 1: Blue

I don't have too many memories of my youth, but I have always been particularly fascinated by animals of all sorts, and they, too, are fascinated by me.
Even though humans are frightening to most creatures, I am hardly human, myself.
There is a sort of kinship shared between us non-humans that is hard to properly describe, but here I am tasked at explaining precisely that.

I suppose the best way to do so is through a story of my earliest friend.
It's strange.
At that age, I only have wisps of memories, small daydreams that cannot tell a cohesive narrative; however, these memories are strong and vivid.
It still feels like a huge, pivotal moment in my life, even though it happened when I was a child.

It all began when I was around five and we lived in a somewhat rural community, and our backyard was surrounded by a dense forest.
One morning, I sat at the kitchen table and began inspecting the treeline.
I think that was the first moment I ever stopped to appreciate the beauty of nature.
At the very least, it's the first time I *remember* doing so.

The sky was dark as gray clouds slowly churned above crisp green trees.
Their needles formed a muddy red bed through which critters scurried about.
On one trunk, a squirrel scurried with a nut in it's mouth, pausing to breathe and survey for predators.
On another, a hole had formed for blue birds to nest.
The chicks chirped and chirped, waiting for their mother to return.

It was all so crisp. So real.

I then looked back to the table before me, illuminated only by the window.
It was gray, along with every other object in the kitchen.
There was no movement.
No *life*.

My father was in the other room, reclining on a gray couch, reading a gray newspaper in his gray attire.
I saw the paper lower a bit, revealing his gray haze.
In the hallway, a clock ticked away, and with every passing second, I could feel my apathy grow.

The two worlds could not be further apart, and at the time, I knew where I wanted to be.
So I did what any five-year-old with no sense of danger would do: I ventured into the forest.

Okay, it wasn't much of a venture, honestly.
I jumped from my chair, opened the door and just... walked.
The grass was unexpectedly tall because I was quite small at the time, and as I approached the treeline, I heard all the creatures of the forest singing their songs.
The birds were louder, bugs were humming, and I soon to heard rustling in pine floor as a chipmunk came out of hiding.
It sniffed the air, scouting for danger before approaching me in short bursts of speed.

I crouched down and stared.
It stared back.
I think we were both lost in wonder and curiosity -- neither of us could fathom what, exactly, we were looking at.
It's nose wrinkled a bit and whiskers jiggled.
I held out my hand, but scared the rodent off.

For a split-second, I felt a tinge of sadness, but I then glanced up, only to see something else in the forest.
A young doe.
It was large, much larger than anything else I had seen at the time, and 
it's hide blended in perfectly to the pine needles, which might have been why I missed it before.
It approached me slowly, one step at a time until it's face was right next to mine.

From its black eyes, I could see the entire world's reflection.
Green grass, gray clouds, and myself... Somewhere in-between the two.

I instinctively reached my hand up to it's snout, feeling it's fur and immediately knew what to call her: Shika.
I scratched her chin a bit, and she nuzzled my arm.
At that time, for the first time in my life, I felt perfectly understood.

I suppose this is why it is still one of my fondest memories. 

Suddenly, I heard the door crack open from the house and my father call my name.
Shika ripped herself from my arms and glanced at my father in panic.
I could feel her fear as my father approached.

"Shoo." He said, waving his hand impertinently towards Shika.

She responded by stepping towards the forest before my father pulled me into his arms. "Don't go wandering off. You had me worried."

As my father walked towards the house with me in his arms, my eyes were locked on Shika.
We had only just met, and I was already afraid of losing her.

As we approached the house, the sounds of the forest became fainter and fainter, until they were silenced completely with the door's click.

My father held my shoulders firmly and said, "Don't play with animals. They could hurt you, and we wouldn't want that." He paused, "Look at me when I'm talking to you."

I didn't understand what he meant at the time.
I _was_ looking at him, his legs anyway.
It took me years before I learned that when people ask you to look at them, they are actually asking you to look at their face, specifically.

Throughout the next few years, Shika and I would continue to meet.
Sometimes, it would be a simple passing glance from the other side of the window-pane, but other times, I found myself venturing out against my father's will.

---

A few years later, my father no longer kept a close watch on me and instead spent all his time in his workshop, building some new contraption of sorts.
I had taken up writing.
I would spend hours a day inscribing my thoughts on paper, listening only to the muffled whirring of my father's tools.

To this day, I have always found poetry and prose to be an utterly fascinating avenue to explore the thoughts and opinions of the human psyche.
In every story or tale, different authors will always focus on different aspects of their characters and environment.
I suppose this holds true for any form of creative content.
If two creative people are tasked at describing the very same setting, with every single aspect of the scene identical to the other, they will still lead their audiences along two radically different stories.
In one tale, a starry sky represents the endless depths of human curiosity, while for others it could represent a prison, constraining our reality, everything we have come to understand, to a certain set of principles we call "Earth."

At some point, I remember trying to describe something as simple as a tree.
Where do you start?
From the trunk, panning upwards to the branches or the other way around?
What kind of tree am I creating?
Should it bear fruit?
Should it harbor animals?
Should it be blooming or barren?

I simply did not know, so I looked to the treeline and described every color that stood out.
Green and brown needles.
Blue sky.
Grey shadows.

Shika.
There, in the shadows stood the only creature I could call a friend staring intently at the house.
I wondered whether she was looking for me or angry at my father for making so much noise.
As I entertained the thought in my mind, the noise suddenly became unbearably loud.
Looking back, I doubt it's volume had increased at all.
It was more likely that my own threshold for noise had dropped as my mind wanderd to the relative silence of nature.

I looked down to my notebook and tried to write, but nothing came to mind.
I was too distracted by something I had not even thought about until moments before.
A wave of emotions ran through me in that instant, and before I knew it, I was out the door and walking to the woods with my notebook in-hand.

As I approached Shika, my father's workshop became more and more distant, drowned out by creatures of all kinds humming and singing their various songs.
Shika and I both seemed like silent observers, absorbing the beauty of nature without disturbing it.
As I approached, she approached me and nuzzled my arms like always.
Squirrels, rabbits, and birds, all watched curiously as I approached and seemed to welcome me as well.

Shika lifted her head and turned towards the treeline, beckoning me to follow.
Thit time, I did.
Her footsteps were quiet, almost silent, careful not to disturb the ambiance of the forest.
I tried to follow her guide and lifted my feet a bit higher to keep from rustling the earth.

So there we were, two friends exploring the world together.
In hindsight, it probably looked rather comical.
A deer, majestically gliding through the forest, illuminated by specks of light piercing through the foliage above, and myself -- a lanky child, dressed from head to toe in gray awkwardly lifting my legs with an unnatural gait to keep myself from clumsily disrupting the environment.
I knew I didn't belong, but I wanted to.

Maybe that's why none of the forest's inhabitants seemed to mind my presence.

We continued into the woods, deeper and deeper until I could no longer see my home.
I remember stopping a few times to do a few odd jobs.
I gave a squirrel a nut and helped a chick back to its nest.
Shika seemed to be a guardian of the forest and led me to woodland creatures requiring humanoid intervention.

At some point, we stumbled upon a clearing.
It was almost a perfect circle, filled with grass and a single tree at the center.
It felt like the tree, itself, was some ancient or respected veteran in the forest, deserving a space alone.
It's branches extended far and wide, leaving plenty of shade to harbor animals of various kinds.

Shika shook her head stretched her shoulders before laying in the sun while I made my way to the tree's trunk and pushed some dirt around for a place to sit.
We sat in silence for a long time, just relaxing and absorbing each other's company.
Strongely enough, there were no rustling creatures or chirping birds, and it felt like civilization was too far to even fathom.

Somehow or another, I found myself returning to the exercise I had before: trying to properly describe a tree.
I looked around and tried to pick out the most important colors.
Green trees and grass, blue sky, brown deer, gray...

Gray what?

Between trees in the distance, a gray haze appeared, and at the time I had never seen anything like it.
It seemed lost, wandering to and fro, sometimes pausing at a tree before leaping to the next.
I found myself oddly captivated by it, constantly watching and wondering where it would go.

Soon, it stopped and leaned slightly.
It, too, seemed captivated by something.

Slowly, it began to come closer and closer until it entered the clearing.
Shika lifted her head, but didn't seem frightened, so I figured that no matter what this *thing* was, it was friendly..
The ghost paused in the sunlight before approaching Shika, enveloping her head in gray fog.

It then paused again before approaching me, too.
It moved like a human, each leap deliberate and meaningful.
It kept walking closer and closer until it was about a body-length before me and stopped.

I couldn't take my eyes off of it.
Up close, it was not too different than it was from afar.
It was a deep, opaque gray mist, slowly drifting into the sky like a the smoke from a bonfire that had just been extinguished.
It was almost identical to how I perceived human faces, with the clear distinction that this object was, for some reason, completely and utterly invisible to me.

I silently wondered whether this being could speak... if it somehow knew about why I was unable to see faces.
I quickly dismissed these thoughts, but became inspired to write a new story.
If I remember, it was about a blind boy who could only see things illuminated by his guide.
It was crude and an obvious allegory to my own predicament, but sometimes it's nice to express yourself through fiction.

As I began to write, the ghost shrunk a bit, seemingly squatting and staring straight at me.
It then crawled next to me and nuzzled itself against my left arm.
Unlike Shika, the haze didn't seem to have any fur, but instead felt more like cloth.

I remember being distinctly frightened at the moment, but looked to Shika to see whether I was worrying too much.
I saw her ear flick away a fly, but she again saw no obvious form of danger
Whatever this thing was next to me, it was not likely to be harmful.

So there we sat for what felt like hours while I wrote my story.
I would look up every now and again, and then to the ghost before writing.
After a while, I came to enjoy its company as well.

I felt like everything was how it was meant to be without a human in sight.
Before I knew it, we had fallen asleep and the sun was nearly setting.

I stretched and stood, waved to the creature, and had Shika walk me home.

When I shut the door behind me, my dad asked where I had been, and I proudly responded, for the first time in my life, "With friends."

"Good for you, son!" He said, obviously cheerful, "You should do that more often."

So I did

---

The next day, I found myself in the same clearing under the same tree with Shika, continuing the story I started the day before.
At the time, I was particularly interested in long-running series, so I was likely adding several characters and plots here and there that had no business being in the story in the first place.
I still have all my old notes and could look back on them, but I feel that might not be worth our time.

As I was scribbling away, my pen slowly began to run out of ink and I found myself trying to inscribe each character harder and harder than before until I ultimately gave up completely.
I was at a bit of a crossroad, wondering if it was worth running home for another pen when I saw a familiar gray mist peering at me from the other side of the tree's trunk.
It stretched itself into the air slightly before showing itself in full.

It stood there next to me for some time before saying, "Hey. I realize we didn't talk much last time. I'm Jackie."
The voice was clearly that of a girl around my age, and I felt my stomach tie itself into a knot.

Was this *thing* a human after all?
If so, what did it think of me?
Why was it here, of all places?
Questions kept popping up in my head without any clear answers.
perplexed, I remember lowering my head and staring at my notebook for a bit without saying a word.

"Hello?" It said again. "Are you deaf? I know you know English."

"Grim." I said. "My friends call me Grim."
I paused for a second.
"Wait. No. That's not true. *People* call me Grim, but not my friends."

The ghost laughed a bit. "What do your friends call you then?"

Again confused, I thought on it.
I did not have any human I could all a *friend.*
"Grim is fine, I guess."

"Grim then." The ghost sat next to me. "We are friends, right?"

"I guess so." I said, still shocked and confused. "Hey, what are you?"

"I'm Jackie?" It also seemed perplexed. "What do you mean *what*?"

"Nevermind. Sorry." I didn't know how to explain everything to her.
If she was a human and not a ghost, she wouldn't understand.
The knot in my stomach tightened.
I had so many questions...

Why is Jackie completely gray and not just her face?
Why is she here, now?

None of them made any sense to ask, so I instead sat there in silence.
Jackie did the same for some time.
I could feel her next to me, but couldn't quite make out what she was doing.
At some point I felt some pressure on my arm, and then my shoulder.

Finally, she asked, "Do they call you Grim because of your face?"

"I think so."

"Have you tried, maybe, using facial expressions?"

"Not really, no."

Jackie laughed a bit.
I still felt her presence on my shoulder.
"I like it here."
She said, "It's peaceful."

"Yeah." I agreed. "Far away from humans."

"Well, far away from *other* humans." She corrected me.

"Right." I sighed a bit, "Other humans."

She sighed too, "Hey. Why aren't you writing today?"

"My pen ran out of ink."

"I see." She paused, "Are you leaving then?"

I hadn't really made up my mind at the time, but the knot in my stomach had not quite gone away, so I said, "I guess."

"Will you be here tomorrow?"

"I guess."
And with that, I had Shika lead me home, leaving Jackie behind.

From then on, we met almost every day in the clearing, often talking about nothing of any importance, but I found myself appreciating the conversations just as much as the silence.

About a month later, the air was crisp and leaves were starting to change.
While Shika and I were out for our afternoon walk, we stopped to look at a nest of bluebirds in a bush who were all just as noisy as always, singing their songs for food from their mother.
Shika truly felt like a source of knowledge.
A comforting mother to all the creatures in the forest.

As I turned around, I noticed Shika's hooves glowing in a bright shade of blue.
My eyes were fixated to them, and as Shika began to walk away, they seemed to pulse slightly with every step.
Shika turned when she noticed I was no longer following, and I rushed ground to inspect further by holding her front hoof in my hand.

It was such an odd phenomenon.
I could still see her leg, black with brown fur extending upward, but superimposed on it was a blue, shimmering *tattoo*.
I don't really know any other way to describe it.

A luminescent blue light clung to her body, and strands of color reached further up the leg, fading slightly until they reached her body and ceased to exist entirely.
She did not seem any different than usual, except that she was slightly annoyed at me for holding her.

I dropped her hoof and let it fall to the ground, where it pulsed again.
Little droplets of the luminescent paint that covered her leg splattered about, but none of it fell to the foliage on the forest floor.
I suppose it just evaporated in the air.

At the time, I thought this was related to my synesthesia, and that might be true, but it could also have been something entirely new.
To this day, I am not sure if the two are related, but I found myself following Shika a bit slower that day, watching as her footsteps illuminated the earth before her.
I figured I would ask Jackie about it when we arrived.

When we finally made it to the clearing, Jackie was already waiting by the tree, but she, too, had changed.
A network of small blue strands wove themselves around her arms and legs, revealing a complex braid around each individual finger and toe.
Outside of this, she still appeared to be a ghost, except now with weirdly unattached appendages within an otherwise completely gray haze.

"You're late." She said in a somewhat mocking tone.

Ordinarily, I would respond with some dry remark like, "We never set a time for this," or "I think you might be early."
That day, though, I was confused.
The world around me ceased to exist in that moment.
No forest.
No trees.
No birds crying for food.
It was just me and her in a plane of white.

Everything about Jackie confused me.
What was she?
Why did she come here every day?
What is going on?

Without responding to her comment, I ran to her and grabbed her hand.
Like Shika's, it was like a luminescent blue paint covered her body.
But somehow more importantly, this was my first real confirmation that Jackie, the ghost I had been talking to every day for a month, was in-fact, human.
Humanoid, at least.

"Wait. Grim." She pulled away and asked, "Are you okay?"

Suddenly the world appeared before me again.
The grass was a faded green and some of the tree's leaves were starting to fall.
The birds were again chirping in my ears and insects were buzzing a bit louder than before.
Shika had dashed after me, curious about my own curiousity.
Jackie's hands were now held close to where her chest should be.

I didn't know what to say or where to look, so I found myself staring at her feet, counting her toes for a bit.
I could see every one of them for the first time.
Admittedly, they were blue, which was a bit odd, and it was also a little too cold to go around without shoes.

Actually... "Jackie. Why aren't you wearing shoes?"

"I am. Seriously, Grim."
Her hand pressed itself against my forehead, slightly obscuring my vision with its newfound color.
It was cold. "Are you okay?"

"I am fine."
I took a deep breath and leaned my back against the tree, slowly falling into the ground.
Jackie sat next to me, her hands were resting in her lap, but I could feel her shoulder against mine.

I held my hand out to her, palm forward and on her lap.
She quickly clasped it, intertwining her fingers between mine.
Shika nudged herself beside me as well, resting her head on my shoulder.

I lifted our hands together and stared for a while.
The blue threads wove themselves so finely around her fingers.
I could see their size and shape, feel their cold touch.

It all felt so surreal.

"Hey, Jackie." I said, "Is this a dream?"

"Grim. This doesn't make sense."

I suddenly realized what I had done from her perspective.
The moment I saw her, I rushed and grabbed her hand.
In the month that we have known each other, I had never even looked at her directly.
Not only that, when she asked me a question, I completely avoided it and asked a seemingly unrelated question about her feet which clearly didn't make any sense.
Afterwards, I sat down and grabbed her hand, like we were in a deep, committed relationship or something.

I pulled my hand away and placed it in my lap. "I'm sorry. I'm just confused."

"Don't be," she said, pulling my hand back. "Seriously, though... Is everything alright?"

"I don't know." Had I told Jackie? Does she know about my condition?

A wave of emotions hit me.
Shame for my recent actions.
Fear of what she would say when she learned about who I actually am.
Guilt for keeping my deepest secret from my closest human friend.

"Jackie."
I couldn't find the right words, so I said whatever came to mind, "I have been lying to you."

She became still and breathed deeply. "About what."

"About *us*, I guess."

"What about *us*." Her voice was slightly colder than normal. Serious.

"About how I see you and you see me."

At that, she withdrew her hand into her lap, and I
began describing my prosopagnosia, how everyone's face looks like a gray blob, a splotch of paint that doesn't fit the rest of the painting.
I told her about when we first met -- how unlike everyone else, she has always been entirely gray and I thought she was a ghost.
I told her about how today was the first day I had ever seen any part of her, how for some reason I could see her toes through her shoes, and how I had never seen anything like it before.

The whole time, she sat in silence.
When I was done, we continued to sit in silence.
The three of us, all resting against a tree.
Shika on my right shoulder, Jackie holding my left hand.

I didn't know what to do or say.
It was both nauseating and comforting at the same time, and I couldn't handle it.

"Sorry... I'll see you tomorrow."
I pulled away from Jackie and stood up, intending to walk back, but Jackie held my hand firmly and pulled me back down.

"Grim. You have nothing to be sorry for. If anything, I am sorry. I didn't realize..." She paused. "It's just a lot to tell someone at once."

"Yeah. I'm sorry."

I tried to stand again and Jackie pulled me back down. "Wait. You can't see me?"

"No. Not really."

"Like, none of me?" Her free hand gestured into the cloud of gray.

"I can see your fingers, toes, calves and forearms now."

"No wait." Her other hand reached to grab my bicep, "You can see *through* my clothes."

"I guess so?"

She pulled her hand away and stood up quickly, twirling around to face me and sticking her hands by her side.
She then held five fingers out on her left hand and had her other hand in a fist.
"How many fingers are up?"

"Five"

Her arms bent slightly and she leaned over a bit. "What the heck?" She held two fingers up in one hand and three in the other. "How about now?"

"Five again," I was completely confused at this point, "What are you doing?"

"Grim. My hands are in my skirt pockets right now."

"Ah. I see." My eyes started wandering off to the treeline again.

"Grim. Focus." She leaned down and grabbed my face, directing it onto some gray point in space.

"On what?"

"On me." She let go of my face. "You have a super power. Like X-ray vision or something."

"Right..." Again my eyes began to drift off.
It wasn't that interesting to me at the time.
After all, I saw her toes through her shoes earlier, so this was the same thing.
She was just coming to the realization a bit later.

"This is so cool." She sat next to me again and grabbed by hand, leaning against my shoulder.

"It only works on you and Shika. It's certainly not something to be excited about."

"Right, but this is the first time something like this has happened, right? It's the beginning of something new! Your powers will grow with time and soon you will be saving people's lives!"

"Maybe. Probably not."

She agreed. "Probably not. But maybe..."

We spent the rest of the time talking, as we normally did before I asked Shika to take me home for the evening.

---

The next day, I found myself in the meadow, as normal.
Jackie sat next to me, but this time I saw a notebook hovering in her lap.
To her side was a sack of colored pencils.

"I've decided to take up drawing." She said, "It's kinda boring just sitting here and watching you write."

"Yeah, I could imagine so." I agreed.

She then pulled a mechanical pencil from her case and began tapping it against the pad before asking, "So, what should I draw?"

"I don't know..." I began remembering when I asked myself the same question with my writing a few months before. "Maybe a tree?"

"But that's so *boring*!" She sighed and leaned against the tree. "What if I drew a tree how *you* see trees? All covered in blue and stuff?"

"A tree is a tree to me, Jackie. No blue."

"Ok, I'll draw it how you *will* see a tree soon, then."

"I don't know what you are expecting here, but I doubt I'll ever see trees differently than how I see them now."

"Geez, you are so boring."

"Yeah, sorry." I thought for a moment, "Actually, let me do that. I want to see if I've gotten better at writing."

"Do what?"

"I'm going to desribe a tree again. I did it a few months ago and kinda got lost. It's hard to really capture everything in text."

She sighed again. "Ok. Fine. Today we do trees, but we'll do something cooler tomorrow, right?"

"Sure."

Here's what I wrote:

> Amongst the grass, a tree sprouted forth. It aspired for greatness. Though one hand gripped the Earth below, another stretched to the heavens above, grasping life, itself.

I totally admit, it's weird and cringey, but the *seed* of an interesting description was there.
A green tree, completely filled with leaves is often considered to be more alive than a barren one.
For this reason, I thought it was a fitting metaphor for a budding tree to be considered a balanced human.
On the one hand, people must 'stay grounded' and hold onto the world they know, the Earth.
On the other hand, they must stretch beyond their boundaries and reach for the sky to truly *live* and grow leaves.

To this day, I'm still kinda proud of the metaphor.
I remember nodding in self-satisfaction before looking over to Jackie's drawing.

She drew a brown rectangle with a green cottonball on top.

At the time, I didn't know what to say.
I just looked back to the grass and then to the sky while leaning back against the tree while she still scribbled away.

Art takes longer than writing, in general, and it's not easy to compare the two mediums.
Besides which, she was new and it was nice to have someone to create together with.

I sat back and began writing a story where the world was composed exclusively of simple shapes: squares, rectangle, circles, and hexagons.
Anything that had a form of edge to it and I had learned about ie geometry class at the time.
I tried to write with simple thoughts as well.
I found myself trying to determine the minimum level of complexity necessary to evoke emotion, and ended up incredibly confused.
To theis day, I don't know the appropriate answer to that question.

At some point, Jackie turned to me and said, "I think I'm done for today."
She then laid her notebook on her lap and I looked at the drawing again.
It had become a peculiar mix of high and low definition objects.
The grass was still a green blur, as were all the trees in the background, but there was an intricate amount of detail around the leaves.

I figured it was a good idea to state that explicitly, so I said, "Cool. I think you did a great job with the leaves in the tree."

"Yeah..." She sighed. "I'm not really good at this at all."

"No one is good when they start. It takes time and lots of practice."

"Yeah, well..." She then leaned against me a bit, "I guess we should practice a lot?"

"Yeah, I guess so."

I watched her hands began packing her pencils and pad. "Well, I gotta go for today. See you tomorrow!"

"Yeah, see you tomorrow."

As Jackie left, I noticed her hands swinging in an odd fashion.
I don't really know how to explain it, but she seemed more lively than before, like ever step came with a small hop.
I sighed a bit and shook my head.
She was odd, but I liked odd people.

From then on, we would try to come up with a new story every day.
Looking back, some of the stories were actually relatively interesting:

- A boy who could "save" his life like in a video game.
- A blind girl with the power to shapeshift.
- Two star-crossed lovers who lived in different dimensions, but could interact through a magic mirror.

In the end, it would be impossible to tell all the tales.
At the time, we had no intention of ever sharing with anyone but ourselves and Shika.
For us, the point of creation is creation, itself.

Now, I suppose I am too old and uninspiring to recreate the stories anyway.

With each passing day, I could see Jackie improving.
Her creativity and artistic vision were truly something to behold.
There was something truly magical about two creative people inspiring one another in their chosen crafts.
Especially when the crafts go hand-in-hand like writing and art.

As I began studying her work in more detail, it felt like the world, itself, changed.
It suddenly became more vibrant and colorful than ever before.

One day, as I closed the door to my house and left my shoes at the door, I remember sitting at the table once again and letting my mind wander.
The greyness was still there.
There was still a deep contrast between inside and out. 
But somehow, I didn't mind it as much as I used to.

My father entered the kitchen and began rummaging through the refrigerator without saying a word.
As he began collecting ingredients on the counter, I noticed his body turn towards me.
"Did something happen today?" He asked.

"Nothing in particular." I said.

"Well, you seem happier today." He said while combining everything he had gathered into a sandwhich of sorts.
"I'm happy your happy."
He then tossed whatever was no longer used into the refridgerator and walked out.

I suppose I was happier.

---

I don't mean to break the flow here, but it has been several days since I wrote the introduction.
I haven't properly eaten or slept, but I haven't properly written much either.

For some reason, the days seem to blend together now.
I truly feel like I have trapped myself in a cage with this work.

I am so used to expressing myself in works of fiction, that I find any type of biographical content difficult -- even if it is my own life's work.

When I woke up this morning, I noticed that my beard was peculiarly long and felt an insatiable desire to trim.
So I did.
Afterwards, my face felt significantly lighter.
It's funny how one single, positive action can significantly affect my state-of-mind.
One moment, I can hardly get out of bed, then after shaving, I find myself wanting to run a marathon!

I fear writing this work has become a trigger for my depression, so
I will take a break from this story for a bit and move onto another.
I am not sure when I'll be back, exactly.

I don't even know why I'm telling you this.
After all, for you, the next chapter is only one page away.

For me, though, it might be days, weeks, even years.

I guess the point is that this work is closer to the incessant ramblings of a madman than a memoir.

Is my story even worth telling?

No.

But in many ways, this isn't *my* story, but a story of someone else told through my eyes.
