# Chapter 2: Indigo

Forest guardian, cleansing the forest from darkness / sludge.

A strong wind created waves in a sea of grass as far as the eye could see.
Clouds ominously loomed above with, grumbling with thunder and threatening an oncoming storm.

At the center of the field stood a maiden, clad entirely in green.
Her dress was made of large leaves from a forgotten forest and held together with vines.
Her skin was pale, almost ghostly and seemed to emit a faint light.
Her hair, like her dress, was adorned with foliage.

It was unclear what this creature was.
A nymph?
A forgotten diety?
A lost guardian of the woods, wandering far from home?

It did not matter.

Her hands were cupped and tightly held to her chest, sheltering a large, oblong seed.
She knelt to the ground and dug a small hole before placing it inside.
She then held her hand on top of the planted seed and began humming a heavenly song.

As she sang, the skies opened, allowing small droplets to fall onto the earth.
As she sang louder, the rain increased, eventually becoming a full downpour.
She kept singing for hours until the storm subsided and the sun peaked around the clouds, forming a beam of light that opened first onto her and her seed before continuing to the rest of the field.

In that moment, the singing ceased and she fell to the ground, spreading her arms and legs and closing her eyes.
She had done all she could.
She stayed there, exhausted from her ritual until the moon and stars appeared above and she fell asleep.

The next morning, a small sprout appeared, no taller than her thumb.

She leapt for joy, excited by her creation and began singing again.
This time, the sprout began to glow green and wriggle with her notes, growing inch-by-inch throughout the day until it was as tall as the forest guardian, herself.

Even so, she kept singing, and the plant kept growing into a large and mighty tree, filled with multi-colored fruit.
She then leapt up and reached into the branches, grabbing the fruit and inspecting it in midair.
In that moment, time seemed to freeze.
She hovered above the Earth, unaffected by gravity while inspecting the fruit of her labour.

It had a green body and red top where a pink flower srouted from its stem.
It was like an apple, but with the thick outer shell of an orange.

While still floating in midair, she delicately peeled the shell, revealing a yellow berry on the inside.
She flipped herself to her back and began inspecting it against the sun.
Except for the pit at its center, it was entirely translucent, allowing the light to reflect onto her face as her body drifted to the gras below.
She then nodded to herself and smiled, before biting into it.
She then leapt up and shouted with joy.
Her creation was perfect in every way!

As she finished the fruit, it produced a seed -- this time round instead of oblong, which she stored in a satchel made of grass.
She proceeded to hum to herself and pick more of the fruit and eating as much as she could before storing the seeds for later.

By the end of the day, she had eaten her fill and rested her back against the tree, looking out into the horizon of green grass and blue sky.
She had a lot of work left to do, but for now, her work was done.
She stretched and yawned before allowing herself to sleep.

That evening, as the moon rose with a starry sky, her skin began to glow a brilliant bue, starting at her feet and arms where strands of color reached towards her chest.
Small, transparent wings, no larger than her hands sprouted on her back and her body seemed to shrink slightly.
This was the start to her metamorphosis to a true forest diety.
It was a sign from above that she had been chosen to nurture a new forest into being.

She, alone, would lead new animals and plants into a new ecosystem, creating a world based on her own utopic vision.

The next morning, she awoke revitalized and ready to spread her seeds onto the world.
She found her feet to be nimbler than before and she seemed to bounce with every step while humming gently to herself.
She dashed a few bodylengths away from her fully developed tree and dug another hole into the ground, singing while planting a seed from her pouch.
She then planted another, and another, creating a circle of new saplings with their ancestor at the center.

Content with her work, she jumped into the branches of their ancestor and began to sing loudly again.
As she did so, the blue tatoos on her arms and legs along with her eyes began to glow and dark clouds rushed into the sky.
They cried tears of joy, showering the earth with water as the new saplings glowed green and grew much faster than the the single tree did the day before.
It felt as if the entire world was echoing her chorus, encouraging every living being to grow and contribute to a single, motivating anthem.

As the saplings grew, they became a variety of different plants.
Some were towering evergreens.
Others were small bushes with berries.
Still others were mighty oaks, cherries or apples.

From one seed, many species grew with the power of their forest guardian.

Again she slept.
This time, it was for more than a single night.
When she awoke, her wings were larger and skin slightly more blue.
Her hair was now glowing green, as if made from leaves themselves.
She was hungry and flew to the ancestor tree, grabbing and devouring any fruit she could find, before placing all the seeds in her satchel.

She then leapt to all neighbouring trees, which had grown quickly to be strong and bear their own fruit.
From them, she collected a number of seeds as well.
Not all of them, but enough to transform her garden to a forest.

She scattered the seeds and sang, calling the storms and sun before sleeping again.
It is not clear how long the process continued.
It could have been weeks.
It could have been years.
The truth is that it does not matter.

As the forest grew, the guardian shrank until she was the size of a small child, with wings that could carry herself far and wide.
Eventually, the ancestor tree stopped bearing fruit, but so she began collecting seeds exclusively from it's offspring and began creating patches of different types of trees, leaving a clearing around their parent.

As she was surveying her land one morning, she noticed a small white flame appear on the branch of a fruit tree.
She flew in and inspected it further.
It appeared to be a small rodent with a long, twitchy tail.
In it's paws, it held fruit that was all-too big for it's body.

As it began chewing, juice flowed onto its fur and as the critter clawed at its sticky fur, it dropped the fruit.
It soon lost balance as well and started falling to the forest floor.

The guardian flew as fast as she could and managed to scoop the animal into her arms just before it landed.
She then flew back up to the branch and let it go.
It turned to her and wrinkled its glowing white whiskers before scurring up the branches to collect another fruit.

The guardian rested herself on a nearby tree and watched for the rest of the day.
This was her first animal guest, and she wanted to make sure it knew it was welcome to stay for longer.
As she returned to the ancestor tree that evening, she noticed the bright flame of her rodent friend still scurrying about far into the depths of her forest, and she slept knowing she had made her first friend.

Time continued to pass and more animals entered her domain.
Rodents of all different kinds on trees and the forest floor.
Birds of all different varieties flew throughout the foliage, creating families from remnants of animals and plants scattered about.
Larger, menacing creatures also began foraging on berry bushes and other animals.
Though she hated to see the flame of life occasionally snuffed out by predators, she knew was proud of the brimmign ecosystem she had created.

Of the creatures who wandered in, none caught her eye more than a large herbivore.
The males had glorious horns sprout every season, and the females were elegant and graceful.
Both were nimble and tried not to disturb any other creatures within the woods.
It felt like these creatures understood every aspect of her creation and respected it.

For years, the guardian lived in relative happiness.
She would survey the land every evening, looking first to the stars above, and then to the flames of life below, knowing that everything she saw was her own creation.

One day, a tall, bipedal creature appeared at the edge of her world.
It was lanky and unnatural, unlike anything she had seen before.
Instead of fur, it carried the pelt of another animal, and it held a metal instrument in its grasp.
The most unnatural thing about it was not its movement or shape.
It was its color.

This creature was not white like the forest dwellers.
It was not blue like the guardian.
It was black.

As she looked into the depths of its being, she felt fear for the first time since she had planted the ancestor tree years before.
Even so, she dismissed her feelings, instead opting to study it from behind some branches.
This was a creature, like everything else, and it was her job to welcome whatever wandered into her domain.

The being took the tool in it's hand and used it to quickly remove some branches from trees, which it began to rub together to make a light of sorts.
It then gathered more sticks and leaves to make a shelter and bedding.
As the sun set that evening, the guardian did not move, but instead observed a peculiar sight.

Even in the darkness of night, there was light, paired with an all-consuming darkness.
Never before had she seen something so beautiful and yet eerily unknown.

No matter the case, the creature seemed as friendly as the bear and wolves.
A predator of prey.
It would fit into the forests ecosystem.

She waited for the being to fall asleep before heading back to the ancestral tree and sleeping herself.

When she awoke the next morning, she found her body was completely blue with pink strands now glowing and growing from her chest.
Her wings were glowing a bright silver in the morning's light.
She had become a full adult and knew it was her duty to find a successor.
She simply no longer had the powers of her youth.

For the next few years, she found herself flying about and tending to the whims of her creatures, and even as the forest grew more vibrant and full of life, the dark being began to replicate.
What was once a single creature had become ten, then well over a hundred.

With every new creature came more unnatural light and the black stains it left behind.
Trees were felled, replaced with metalic structures or large huts and buildings.
Animals were uprooted from their homes and often killed on-site within the new, dark domain.
Eventually, the creatures began summoning dark clouds of their own that covered their cities and towns, discouraging any other creature from entering.

While she tried to keep her forest a calm and welcoming environment, the dark creatured did the opposite, creating a dark smudge on her otherwise perfect world.
Even so, she only had the power to create, not destroy.
These dark creatures were welcome as well, even if they destroyed centuries of diligent care.

Eventually, her body and wings began to shrivel further.
Silver became grey.
Blue and purple became black.

Without the fruit of the ancestor tree, she had nothing to sustain herself.
She had one singular duty left: to choose a successor.

One morning, as she rested in the branches of the ancestor tree, watching the forests inhabitants clash in bouts of light and darkness, she noticed a small fawn amble into the meadow.
It was no older than a year and missing its parents.

Somehow, the guardian knew this doe was what she was waiting for.
She drifted over to the deer's head and landed between it's ears before exploding into a brilliant display of blue, purple and white.
The colours began to wrap around the deer, creating blue streaks stretching from its hooves, much like her own transformation years ago.
The guradian had no idea what her forest would look like without her, but she knew it was time to go and she gave her creature all the powers she had stored within her.

The deer was suddenly made aware of all the history of the forest.
The ancestral tree.
The seeds scattered and years of delecate work.
The squirrels who entered the forest before any other creatures, and the humans who had been causing so much pain.

The young doe knelt under the pressure and clouds of rain appeared in the sky, acting as tears from the forest that had lost its only hope in such a trying time.

Even so, the deer knew precisely what needed to be done.
It needed to make amends with the humans -- to show them the forest is worth protecting as well!

Meets Grim and Jackie as grey, not black.

---

This is an exerpt from one of the stories Jackie and I wrote together.
It was written a few months after Shika had passed away.

At the time, I played off of some incredibly common tropes, like the idea that nature is good and humanity is bad.
I don't really know if I believe that or not anymore.
The world exists and we all find our own purpose within it.

That said, I decided to include it here because it shows how emotionally impactful Shika's passing was for me.
I honestly did not know how to show my emotion at the time, but I know for sure that that was the first time I experienced true sadness.
The forest truly felt different without her, as if it was missing its guardian spirit.

And that was why we wrote what we wrote.
I kinda wish we had thought more about it at the time, especially now that I am sharing it with you all, but there is slightly more to the story than that.

I still remember the night so vividly, but still cannot find a way to properly express the emotion of it all.
That was why we wrote this story together in homage to our closest friend.

Immediately following her death, I asked my father to help me build a wooden frame large enough to hold her.

Jackie quickly etched designs in the side and we used it to bury Shika in the ground next to the tree we would always sit next to.

I suppose that was my first coffin.
The one that started it all.

ADD MORE

...

It has been a year since my last writing.
I am still trying and failing to collect my thoughts.

Hair
